AWS Getting Started guide (#12869)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/integrations/aws.md

This guide provides an overview of the process for linking an AWS account with Datadog using Datadog's CloudFormation template. 

At a high level, this involves creating a read-only IAM role and associated policy for Datadog's AWS account and deploying the [Datadog Forwarder][1] Lambda function. The forwarder then simplifies the process of sending logs, custom metrics, and traces to Datadog. Using the CloudFormation template provides all the tools needed to send this data to your Datadog account, and Datadog maintains the CloudFormation template to provide the latest functionality.

This process can be repeated for as many AWS accounts as necessary, and you can also use the [API][2] or [Terraform][3] to set up multiple accounts at once.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, ensure you have the following prerequisites:

1. [AWS][4] account
2. A Datadog account and [API key][5]. If you need a Datadog account, [sign up for a free trial][6].

## Setup

1. From the AWS tile on the [Integrations Page][7] in your Datadog account. Select the CloudFormation Template option:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integration-tile-setup.png" alt="Datadog integrations AWS tile">}}

> 2. This opens the AWS Console and loads the CloudFormation stack. For this demonstration, the API key has been entered directly into the `DdApiKey` field, but you can also store this value in [Secrets Manager][8] and specify the ARN of the secret:

Reviewer: +1 on this idea, definitely helpful to link out to the AWS docs for terminology or reference, especially around things like ARN, IAM policy, etc. to give more clarity. Especially if supplemental console instructions exist. They come in handy as the console changes quite a bit.

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/cloudformation-options-1.png" alt="First part of CloudFormation options for creating Datadog stacks">}}

> 3. Ensure that the the correct [Datadog site][9] parameter is used for the `DdSite` parameter to match the region of your Datadog account. Check the required boxes from AWS and click `Create stack`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Ensure that the correct [Datadog site][9] parameter is used for the `DdSite` parameter to match the region of your Datadog account. Check the required boxes from AWS and click `Create stack`:
```
I am confused by this one, I don't see where you would put the DD site in this screenshot

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/cloudformation-options-2.png" alt="Second part of CloudFormation options for creating Datadog stacks">}}

This begins the creation process for the Datadog stack along with three nested stacks:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/cloudformation-stacks-complete.png" alt="Datadog stacks completed in CloudFormation">}}

> 4. From the integration tile on the Datadog side, enter the AWS account ID and AWS Role name. If the role name wasn't changed in the CloudFormation setup page, use `DatadogIntegrationRole`. Datadog automatically queries AWS with the provided values, and a successful query returns the following status:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. From the integration tile on the Datadog side, enter the AWS account ID and AWS Role name. If you didn't change the role name in the CloudFormation setup page, use `DatadogIntegrationRole`, if you did change it, use the new value. Datadog automatically queries AWS with the provided values, and a successful query returns the following status:
```

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integration-tile-status.png" alt="Datadog AWS integration tile with 'Account credentials are valid' message">}}

> 5. Finally, click `Install integration`. For the purposes of this demonstration, all options have been selected (only `Collect custom metrics` is unticked by default):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Finally, click `Install integration`. Select the services you want to use. For the purposes of this demonstration, all options have been selected (only `Collect custom metrics` is unticked by default):
```
I think the screenshot having all of the services selected is fine, but you'll want to be more specific about what you need for this getting started.

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integration-tile-complete.png" alt="Datadog AWS integration tile">}}

> It should be noted that there are multiple options within the integration tile to specify the data to be collected. This can be limited based on AWS service, namespace, or tags.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: There are multiple options in the AWS integration tile to specify the data to be collected. Select these options based on the AWS service, namespace, or tags you use.
```

With [EC2 automuting][10] enabled, Datadog uses host statuses reported by the CloudWatch API to distinguish between expected and unexpected instance terminations, preventing unwanted Monitor notifications.

### Validation

> The automatically-provisioned [AWS overview dashboard][11] provides an immediate window into the metrics sent by your AWS services and infrastructure:

Reviewer 2: This is cool! I didn't realize this exists.

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/aws-dashboard.png" alt="AWS overview dashboard">}}

## Sending Logs

> As a result of setting up the Datadog Forwarder function with the CloudFormation template, log collection can be configured from directly within the integration tile in Datadog. Click into the `Collect Logs` tab in the Integration tile and enter the ARN of the Forwarder lambda. With the ARN entered, click the check mark to establish the connection: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result of setting up the Datadog Forwarder function with the CloudFormation template, log collection can be configured directly in the integration tile in Datadog. Click into the `Collect Logs` tab in the Integration tile and enter the ARN of the Forwarder Lambda. With the ARN entered, click the checkmark to establish the connection: 
```

Reviewer 3: As a result of setting up the Datadog Forwarder function with the CloudFormation template, you can configure log collection directly in the integration tile in Datadog. Click into the `Collect Logs` tab in the Integration tile and enter the ARN of the Forwarder Lambda. With the ARN entered, click the checkmark to establish the connection:

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integration-tile-collect-logs-1.png" alt="Datadog AWS integration tile 'Collect Logs' tab">}}

> Once completed, you'll be able to select from any of the log sources mentioned in [this guide][12] for sending AWS service logs. For this guide, we'll select only S3 access logs, and click `Save`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once completed, you'll be able to select from any of the log sources mentioned in the [Send AWS services logs with the Datadog Lambda function guide][12] for sending AWS service logs. 

Select S3 access logs, and click `Save`:
```

Reviewer 3: Once this is complete, you can select ...

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integration-tile-collect-logs-2.png" alt="Datadog AWS integration tile 'Collect Logs' tab with 'S3' option checked">}}

### Validation

Find your logs in the [Logs Explorer][13] using either the `source` or `service` facets from the facet panel:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/logs-explorer.png" alt="Datadog Logs Explorer">}}

> ## Deeper visibility with the Datadog agent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Deeper visibility with the Datadog Agent
```
Agent is always capitalized (when it is the Datadog Agent). I think I made suggestions everywhere, but just so you know if I missed one and for future.

> By default the Datadog AWS integration crawls the CloudWatch API for AWS-provided metrics, but you can gain even deeper visibility into your EC2 instances and ECS clusters with the [Datadog agent][14]. The agent is a lightweight daemon which reports metrics and events, and can also be configured for logs and traces. The [Agent Installation][15] section of the Datadog application provides instructions for installing the agent on a wide variety of operating systems, with many options--such as Amazon Linux 2--offering one-step installation commands. This command can then be run from the instance terminal to install the agent:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default the Datadog AWS integration crawls the CloudWatch API for AWS-provided metrics, but you can gain even deeper visibility into your EC2 instances and ECS clusters with the [Datadog Agent][14]. The agent is a lightweight daemon which reports metrics and events, and can also be configured for logs and traces. The [Agent Installation][15] section of the Datadog application provides instructions for installing the Agent on a wide variety of operating systems, with many options--such as Amazon Linux 2--offering one-step installation commands. This command can then be run from the instance terminal to install the Agent:
```

Reviewer 3: `The Agent is a lightweight daemon that reports metrics and events` (not which)

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integrations-agent-installation.png" alt="Datadog agent installation page">}}

Once the agent is installed, it's graphically represented within the [Infrastructure List][16] with a bone icon:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/infrastructure-list.png" alt="Datadog infrastructure list">}}

As can be seen in the screenshot above, the host with the Datadog agent is reporting data from the [System][17] and [NTP][18] checks. The System check provides metrics around CPU, memory, filesystem, and I/O, providing additional insights into the host. You can enable additional [integrations][19] to suit the environment and use case, and [DogStatsD][20] can additionally be leveraged for sending custom metrics directly to Datadog. 

> ## What's next?

Reviewer 2: I think this section is a great start but could and should be expanded a lot more. I would love to see info on ECS, EC2, EKS, Fargate, etc - I would classify it as the most popular of this list - https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/#cat-aws (and maybe even consider including a link to this list). I would like to see this section become a really powerful map to navigating through AWS in  Datadog.

With metrics and logs flowing from AWS into Datadog, there are a number of options to further explore and analyze the data. For example, creating [dashboards][21] to provide visibility or setting up [monitors][22] to be notified for any unwanted or unexpected behavior.

> ### Traces

Reviewer 2: I think each of these three sections is a great start, but incomplete. I would love to see more info about what you can do, bare bones of how to do it, and why it is useful.

To dig even deeper and gather more data from your applications and AWS services, there is also the option of receiving distributed traces from either the [AWS X-Ray][23] integration or from a host with the Datadog agent via [Datadog's APM][24].

### Security
Review the [Getting Started with CSPM][25] guide to assess and detect misconfigurations in your cloud environment.

### Troubleshooting

> If you encounter any issues, be sure to check out the [Troubleshooting][26] section of our documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you encounter any issues, be sure to check out the [Troubleshooting][26] section.
```

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
you just need one new line here

    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitor-aws-fargate/'
      tag: 'Blog'
      text: 'Monitor ECS applications on AWS Fargate with Datadog'
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/amazon-ecs-anywhere-monitoring/'
      tag: 'Blog'
      text: 'Monitor Amazon ECS Anywhere with Datadog'
    - link: 'integrations/guide/aws-cloudwatch-metric-streams-with-kinesis-data-firehose/??tab=cloudformation'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'AWS CloudWatch Metric Streams with Kinesis Data Firehose'
---

## Overview

This guide provides an overview of the process for integrating an Amazon Web Services(AWS) account with Datadog using Datadog's CloudFormation template. 

At a high level, this involves creating an IAM role and associated policy to enable Datadog's AWS account to make API calls into your AWS account for collecting or pushing data. The template also deploys the [Datadog Forwarder][1] Lambda function for sending logs to Datadog. Using the CloudFormation template provides all the tools needed to send this data to your Datadog account, and Datadog maintains the CloudFormation template to provide the latest functionality.

> Once the initial connection is established, you can easily enable any of the sub-integrations relevant to your cloud environment. With a single click, Datadog queries AWS with the provisioned IAM role and installs the desired integration. As soon as data returns from the integration, Datadog provisions an out-of-the-box dashboard for that integration, providing immediate and customizable visibility. This guide demonstrates setting up the integration, sending logs from [CloudTrail][2] and the Forwarder Lambda function, and installing the Datadog Agent on an Amazon Linux EC2 instance. See the [Enable sub-integrations section](#enable-sub-integrations) for a list of the available sub-integrations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the initial connection is established, you can easily enable any of the individual AWS service integrations relevant to your AWS environment. With a single click, Datadog provisions the necessary resources in your AWS account and begins querying metrics and events for the services you use. For popular AWS services you are using, Datadog provisions out-of-the-box dashboards, providing immediate and customizable visibility. This guide demonstrates setting up the integration, sending logs from [CloudTrail][2] and the Forwarder Lambda function, and installing the Datadog Agent on an Amazon Linux EC2 instance. See the [Enable sub-integrations section](#enable-sub-integrations) for a list of the available sub-integrations.
```

    * lambda:GetFunction
    * lambda:GetFunctionCodeSigningConfig
    * lambda:InvokeFunction
    * lambda:PutFunctionConcurrency
    * logs:CreateLogGroup
    * logs:DescribeLogGroups
    * logs:PutRetentionPolicy
    * s3:CreateBucket
    * s3:GetObject
    * s3:GetObjectVersion
    * secretsmanager:CreateSecret
    * secretsmanager:GetSecretValue
    * secretsmanager:PutSecretValue
    * serverless:CreateCloudFormationTemplate

2. A Datadog account and [API key][8]. If you need a Datadog account, [sign up for a free trial][9].

## Setup

1. You must provide a valid Datadog [API Key][10] to the CloudFormation template. You can paste the API key directly into the CloudFront template, or you can store the value in [Secrets Manager][11] and reference the ARN of the secret. First, copy this value to your clipboard.

2. From the AWS tile on the [Integrations page][12] in your Datadog account, select the CloudFormation Template option:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integration-tile-setup.png" alt="An image from the Datadog AWS integration tile showing the options for establishing the integration. The Role Delegation tab is highlighted.">}}

> 

Reviewer 4: A step is needed in between 2 & 3 asking the user to change their AWS region in the AWS console if they want to run this template in a different one from us-east-1.

This begins the creation process for the Datadog stack along with three nested stacks. This could take several minutes; ensure that the stack successfully creates before proceeding:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/cloudformation-stacks-complete.png" alt="An image from the AWS CloudFormation Stacks page showing the four completed stacks under the 'Stacks' column along the left hand side of the page. The stacks are datadog-DatadogIntegrationRoleStack, datadog-DatadogPolicyMacroStack, datadog-ForwarderStack, and datadog. Each stack shows the timestamp of creation and a green checkmark with CREATE_COMPLETE. The 'datadog' stack and is highlighted and displaying the 'Events' tab. There are 9 events listed with their Timestamp, Logical ID, Status, and Status reason. These events reference the different stages of creation for each of the stacks.">}}

> 5. From the integration tile on the Datadog side, enter the AWS account ID and AWS Role name. If the role name wasn't changed in the CloudFormation setup page, use `DatadogIntegrationRole`. Datadog automatically queries AWS with the provided values, and a successful query returns a status that tells you your credentials are valid. Scroll down to find the `Install Integration` button.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Once the Stack has successfully created, go back to the Datadog tab you have open to the AWS  integration tile. You'll see a box for the new account you created. Click "Refresh to Check Status" and you should see a success message at the top of the page, along with the new account you just added visible on the page with the relevant details.
```
![Screen Shot 2022-02-28 at 6 03 09 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6912096/156073154-5d729089-3cd1-44f8-85bb-e9f7c2aeea52.png)

> 6. Click `Install Integration`. For this demonstration, all options have been selected (only `Collect custom metrics` is unticked by default):

Reviewer 4: Can we add a highlight on the image of the button since it is in a non-obvious location and might not stand out

> 6. Click `Install Integration`. For this demonstration, all options have been selected (only `Collect custom metrics` is unticked by default):

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```

Not needed

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integration-tile-complete.png" alt="An image displaying the AWS integration tile from within the Datadog account. The left hand side shows that the EC2 automuting option is enabled. There is a section titled 'Limit metric collection by AWS Service' which displays the sub-integrations associated with the Datadog AWS integration. These are ApiGateway, ApplicationELB, AppRunner, AppStream, AppSync, Athena, AutoScaling, Billing, Budgeting, CertificateManager, CloudFront, CloudHSM, CloudSearch, CodeBuild, Cognito, and Connect. There is a heading which states 'Turning on sub-integrations can affect your CloudWatch API usage. See our AWS FAQ for more info.'. All boxes are displayed as checked. Below this is another section called 'Other options'. There are two checkboxes here, Collect CloudWatch alarms and Collect custom metrics. Both options are checked.' On the right hand side of the page there is a section showing the settings for the connected AWS account. The Account ID is displayed as an obfuscated value. The AWS Role name is displayed as DatadogIntegrationRole.">}}

> Depending on which AWS services you're using and your use case for monitoring, there are multiple options within the integration tile to specify the data to be collected. For example, you can limit data collection based on AWS service, namespace, or tags. Additionally, you can choose to mute monitor notifications, for instance terminations triggered manually or by autoscaling with [EC2 automuting][14] enabled. If needed, enable [Alarm Collection][15] to send your CloudWatch alarms to the Datadog [Event Stream][16] and choose whether to collect custom metrics.

Reviewer 4: Remove extra comma: `Additionally, you can choose to mute monitor notifications for instance termination...`

### Validation

View the out-of-the-box [AWS overview dashboard][17] to see metrics sent by your AWS services and infrastructure:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/aws-dashboard.png" alt="An image displaying the AWS overview dashboard in the Datadog account. On the left is the AWS logo and an AWS events graph showing 'No matching entries found'. In the center are graphs related to EBS volumes with numerical data displayed and a heat map showing consistent data. Along the right are graphs related to ELBs showing numerical data as well as a timeseries graph showing spikey data from three sources.">}}

> ## Enable sub-integrations

Reviewer 4: Don't use term sub-integrations. Use `Enable integrations for individual AWS services`.

> See the [Integrations page][18] for a full listing of the available sub-integrations.

Reviewer 4: Reiterate that many will be installed by default when this integration recognizes data from the individual AWS service.

> ## Send logs

Reviewer 4: This section needs a lot of work, or we defer to https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/guide/send-aws-services-logs-with-the-datadog-lambda-function/?tab=awsconsole#enable-logging-for-your-aws-service

1. For the cloudtrail example, we should actually do a step by step of that with new screenshots for these steps https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/amazon_cloudtrail/#log-collection or nor not include since it is confusing.

3. We need an intro section about how sending logs to Datadog from AWS works overall. Everything follows these 3 general steps:
1. Setup the infrustructure for sending logs to Datadog. There are 2 options for this (Lambda forwarder OR Kinesis Data Firehose as mentioned here: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/amazon_web_services/?tab=roledelegation#log-collection
2. Enable logging in AWS for each AWS service/resource you wish to generate logs. We have docs on this usually on individual integration docs pages for the different AWS integrations.
3. Set up triggers or subscription filters from the AWS log locations (CloudWatch logs or S3) to the Datadog infrastructure you set up to send logs (Lambda forwarder OR Kinesis Data Firehose

Reviewer 2: cool, I have linked out to this list for now, but as a fast iterative update we'll update the list so we can use the same content in both places

### With CloudTrail

As [CloudTrail][19] is widely used and helps to power [Cloud SIEM][20], follow the [Log collection documentation][21] for CloudTrail. This requires sending your CloudTrail logs to S3 and adding a trigger on the already-provisioned Datadog Forwarder Lambda function for `Object Created (All)` events on your S3 bucket.

Any new log events will be sent to Datadog once established, and the logs appear with the `Source` and `Service` attributes set as `cloudtrail`:

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/logs-explorer-cloudtrail.png" alt="An image from the Logs Explorer page of the Datadog account. Along the left the image displays the Source facet, checked with 'cloudtrail'. Along the right, some log entries are displayed in a list format.">}}

> ### Automatically using triggers

Reviewer 4: Remove this section. I think it does more harm than good in this context since it doesn't work easily without a lot of hidden steps.

Datadog uses host statuses reported by the CloudWatch API to distinguish between expected and unexpected instance terminations, preventing unwanted Monitor notifications.

### Validation

View the out-of-the-box [AWS overview dashboard][15] to see metrics sent by your AWS services and infrastructure:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/aws-dashboard.png" alt="An image displaying the AWS overview dashboard in the Datadog account. On the left is the AWS logo and an AWS events graph showing 'No matching entries found'. In the center are graphs related to EBS volumes with numerical data displayed and a heat map showing consistent data. Along the right are graphs related to ELBs showing numerical data as well as a timeseries graph showing spikey data from three sources.">}}

## Exploring other products

### Serverless

> You can unify the metrics, traces, and logs from your AWS Lambda functions running serverless applications in Datadog. Check out [Serverless] for instructions on instrumenting your application, installing [Serverless Libraries and Integrations][16], implementing [Distributed Tracing with Serverless Applications][17], or [Serverless Troubleshooting][18].

Reviewer 4: - Flip the first sentence: `You can monitor your serverless applications in AWS by unifying metrics, traces, and logs from your AWS Lambda functions and related services.`

- I don't think we need the details in the second sentence. Just refer the user to https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/

> ### Other integrations

Reviewer 4: - I would call this "Integrations for individual AWS services", and note that we collect metrics for most of these upon initial setup without any addition steps required.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Datadog's Amazon integration is built to collect <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html">ALL metrics from CloudWatch</a>. Datadog strives to continually update the docs to show every sub-integration, but cloud services rapidly release new metrics and services so the list of integrations are sometimes lagging.
</div>

> | Integration                             | Description                                                                            |

Reviewer 4: FYI this list is out of date compared to https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/#cat-aws, but likely not worth changing in this iteration.

Reviewer 2: I think that we should link to https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/#cat-aws because it is an automatically generated list instead of having the list hard coded here because this is going to be _really hard_ to keep up to date otherwise

| [SES (Simple Email Service)][16]        | Cost-effective, outbound-only email-sending service                                    |
| [SNS (Simple Notification System)][65]  | Alerts and notifications                                                               |
| [SQS (Simple Queue Service)][17]        | Messaging queue service                                                                |
| [Storage Gateway][18]                   | Hybrid cloud storage                                                                   |
| [SWF (Simple Workflow Service)][66]     | Cloud workflow management                                                              |
| [VPC (Virtual Private Cloud)][67]       | Launch AWS resources into a virtual network                                            |
| [Web Application Firewall (WAF)][68]    | Protect web applications from common web exploits                                      |
| [Workspaces][69]                        | Secure desktop computing service                                                       |
| [X-Ray][70]                             | Tracing for distributed applications                                                   |

> ## Sending Logs

Reviewer 4: This is tough. The steps you have here won't actually start log collection if the customer doesn't have logging properly enabled on a service in AWS.

See 
https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/guide/send-aws-services-logs-with-the-datadog-lambda-function/?tab=awsconsole
step 2. Enable logging for your AWS service (most AWS services can log to a S3 bucket or CloudWatch Log Group) which is not covered in your instructions. More details [here](https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/guide/send-aws-services-logs-with-the-datadog-lambda-function/?tab=awsconsole#enable-logging-for-your-aws-service)

One idea might be to pick a specific log source to show, maybe CloudTrail since it is so universal to everyone on AWS and helps power Cloud SIEM too.

If needed, check out [Enable logging for your AWS service][63] to start generating logs on your AWS account. Once you're receiving logs, review [Log Management][64] for more information about processing, enriching, searching, and analyzing your logs.

### Validation

Find your logs in the [Logs Explorer][20] using either the `source` or `service` facets from the facet panel:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/logs-explorer.png" alt="An image from the Logs Explorer page of the Datadog account. Along the left the image displays the Source and Service facets, both checked with 's3'. Along the right, some log entries are displayed in a list format.">}}

> ## Deeper visibility with the Datadog Agent on a host

Reviewer 4: ECS is also container, so  I would move to the containers section.

Would relabel to `Deeper visibility with the Datadog Agent on EC2`

#### ECS with Fargate launch type

Use the [Amazon ECS on AWS Fargate documentation][33]  to run the Agent as a container in the same task definition as your application. **Note**: Datadog Agent version 6.1.1 or higher is needed to take full advantage of the Fargate integration.

#### EKS

You don't need any specific configuration for AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), as mentioned in the [Kubernetes Distributions documentation][34]. Use the [dedicated Kubernetes documentation][35] to deploy the agent in your EKS cluster.

#### EKS with Fargate

Since Fargate pods are managed by AWS, they exclude host-based system checks like CPU and memory. In order to collect data from your AWS Fargate pods, use the [Amazon EKS on AWS Fargate documentation][53] to run the Agent as a sidecar of your application pod with custom role-based access control (RBAC). **Note**: This requires Datadog Agent version 7.17 or higher.

#### EKS Anywhere

Use the [EKS Anywhere documentation][36] for on-premises Kubernetes clusters.

## What's next?

> ### Create additional Datadog resources

Reviewer 4: I would actually reorganize "What's next" a bit where we do have a "Get more from the Datadog plaform" which includes the Datadog agent and other compute monitoring as well as "Create additional Datadog resources" section talking about CloudFormation Registry, setting up monitors and dashboard etc. looking at the out of the box dashboards we have for other AWS servuces

and then a separate "Explore Related products" section with APM, Cloud SIEM, and Cloud Security Posture Management. And then also move Serverless to there.

In addition to using the Datadog UI or [API][37], you can create many [Datadog resources][38] with the [CloudFormation Registry][39]. For visibility and troubleshooting, use [dashboards][40] to display key data, apply [Functions][41], and find [Metric Correlations][42]. 

In order to get notified of any unwanted or unexpected behavior in your account, create [monitors][43]. Monitors consistently evaluate the data reported to your account, and send [Notifications][44] to ensure that the right information gets to the right team members. Review the [List of Notification Integrations][45] for all the ways to notify your team.

> ### Traces

Reviewer 4: Title `APM`

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, ensure you have the following prerequisites:

1. An [AWS][7] account. Your AWS user needs the following IAM permissions to successfully run the CloudFormation template:

* cloudformation:CreateStack
* ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups
* ec2:DescribeSubnets
* ec2:DescribeVpcs
* iam:AttachRolePolicy
* iam:CreatePolicy
* iam:CreateRole
* iam:PassRole
* iam:PutRolePolicy
* iam:UpdateAssumeRolePolicy
* kms:Decrypt
* lambda:AddPermission
* lambda:CreateFunction
* lambda:GetCodeSigningConfig
* lambda:GetFunction
* lambda:GetFunctionCodeSigningConfig
* lambda:InvokeFunction
* lambda:PutFunctionConcurrency
* logs:CreateLogGroup
* logs:DescribeLogGroups
* logs:PutRetentionPolicy
* s3:CreateBucket
* s3:GetObject
* s3:GetObjectVersion
* secretsmanager:CreateSecret
* secretsmanager:GetSecretValue
* secretsmanager:PutSecretValue
* serverless:CreateCloudFormationTemplate

2. A Datadog account and [API key][8]. If you need a Datadog account, [sign up for a free trial][9].

## Setup

> 1. You will need to provide a valid Datadog [API Key][10] to the CloudFormation template. You can paste the API key directly into the CloudFront template, or you can store the value in [Secrets Manager][11] and reference the ARN of the secret. First, copy this value to your clipboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Provide a valid Datadog [API Key][10] to the CloudFormation template. You can paste the API key directly into the CloudFront template, or you can store the value in [Secrets Manager][11] and reference the ARN of the secret. First, copy this value to your clipboard.
```

2. From the AWS tile on the [Integrations page][12] in your Datadog account, select the CloudFormation Template option:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integration-tile-setup.png" alt="An image from the Datadog AWS integration tile showing the options for establishing the integration. The Role Delegation tab is highlighted.">}}

3. This opens the AWS Console and loads the CloudFormation stack. Paste the API key into the `DdApiKey` field, or paste the Secret ARN into the `DdApiKeySecretArn` if using Secrets Manager:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/cloudformation-options-1.png" alt="An image from the AWS CloudFormation create-stack page that shows the Stack name as datadog, IAMRoleName as DatadogIntegrationRole, ExternalId as an obfuscated value ending in be46, DdApiKey as an obfuscated value.">}}

> 4. Ensure that the the correct [Datadog site][13] is used for the `DdSite` parameter to match the region of your Datadog account. Check the required boxes from AWS and click `Create stack`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Ensure that the correct [Datadog site][13] is used for the `DdSite` parameter to match the region of your Datadog account. Check the required boxes from AWS and click `Create stack`:
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Check the required boxes from AWS and click `Create stack`:
```

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/cloudformation-options-2.png" alt="An image from the AWS CloudFormation create-stack page that shows the Advanced options of creating the Datadog stack. DdAWSAccountId parameter is filled in with 464622532012, DdForwarderName parameter is filled in with DatadogForwarder, and InstallDatadogPolicyMacro is set as true. Below these parameters is a Capabilities section with two checkboxes, both of which are checked. The first checkbox states 'I acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might create IAM resources with custom names.' The second checkbox states 'I acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might require the following capability: CAPABILITY_AUTO_EXPAND'.">}}

> This begins the creation process for the Datadog stack along with three nested stacks. This could take several minutes; ensure that the stack successfully creates before proceeding:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This begins the creation process for the Datadog stack along with three nested stacks. This could take several minutes; ensure that the stack is successfully created before proceeding:
```

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/cloudformation-stacks-complete.png" alt="An image from the AWS CloudFormation Stacks page showing the four completed stacks under the 'Stacks' column along the left hand side of the page. The stacks are datadog-DatadogIntegrationRoleStack, datadog-DatadogPolicyMacroStack, datadog-ForwarderStack, and datadog. Each stack shows the timestamp of creation and a green checkmark with CREATE_COMPLETE. The 'datadog' stack and is highlighted and displaying the 'Events' tab. There are 9 events listed with their Timestamp, Logical ID, Status, and Status reason. These events reference the different stages of creation for each of the stacks.">}}

5. From the integration tile on the Datadog side, enter the AWS account ID and AWS Role name. If the role name wasn't changed in the CloudFormation setup page, use `DatadogIntegrationRole`. Datadog automatically queries AWS with the provided values, and a successful query returns a status that tells you your credentials are valid. Scroll down to find the `Install Integration` button.

> 6. Click `Install Integration`. For the purposes of this demonstration, all options have been selected (only `Collect custom metrics` is unticked by default):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Click `Install Integration`. For this demonstration, all options have been selected (only `Collect custom metrics` is unticked by default):
```

{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/integration-tile-complete.png" alt="An image displaying the AWS integration tile from within the Datadog account. The left hand side shows that the EC2 automuting option is enabled. There is a section titled 'Limit metric collection by AWS Service' which displays the sub-integrations associated with the Datadog AWS integration. These are ApiGateway, ApplicationELB, AppRunner, AppStream, AppSync, Athena, AutoScaling, Billing, Budgeting, CertificateManager, CloudFront, CloudHSM, CloudSearch, CodeBuild, Cognito, and Connect. There is a heading which states 'Turning on sub-integrations can affect your CloudWatch API usage. See our AWS FAQ for more info.'. All boxes are displayed as checked. Below this is another section called 'Other options'. There are two checkboxes here, Collect CloudWatch alarms and Collect custom metrics. Both options are checked.' On the right hand side of the page there is a section showing the settings for the connected AWS account. The Account ID is displayed as an obfuscated value. The AWS Role name is displayed as DatadogIntegrationRole.">}}

> Depending on which AWS services you're using and your use case for monitoring, there are multiple options within the integration tile to specify the data to be collected. For example, you can limit data collection based on AWS service, namespace, or tags. Additionally, you can choose to mute monitors for instance terminations triggered manually or by autoscaling with [EC2 automuting][14] enabled. If needed, enable [Alarm Collection][15] to send your CloudWatch alarms to the Datadog [Event Stream][16] and choose whether to collect custom metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on which AWS services you're using and your use case for monitoring, there are multiple options within the integration tile to specify the data to be collected. For example, you can limit data collection based on AWS service, namespace, or tags. Additionally, you can choose to mute monitors, for instance terminations triggered manually or by autoscaling with [EC2 automuting][14] enabled. If needed, enable [Alarm Collection][15] to send your CloudWatch alarms to the Datadog [Event Stream][16] and choose whether to collect custom metrics.
```

Once the Agent is installed, it's graphically represented within the [Infrastructure List][22] with a bone icon:
{{< img src="getting_started/integrations/infrastructure-list.png" alt="An image from the infrastructure list of the Datadog account. Two hosts are displayed in a list format. Both hosts show the AWS icon for the AWS integration and 'aws' shown in a blue box to show they are associated with the AWS integration. One host also shows a dog-bone icon and blue boxes for 'ntp' and 'system'.">}}

As can be seen in the screenshot above, the host with the Datadog Agent is reporting data from the [System][23] and [NTP][24] checks. The System check provides metrics around CPU, memory, filesystem, and I/O, providing additional insights into the host. You can enable additional [integrations][25] to suit the environment and use case, and [DogStatsD][26] can additionally be leveraged for sending custom metrics directly to Datadog. 

See the [FAQ on why you should install the Datadog Agent on your cloud instances][27] for more information about the benefits of this approach.

### Using the Datadog Agent with Amazon Container Services

> For containerized environments, you can use the Datadog Agent whether you're managing your instances or leveraging [Fargate][28] for a serverless environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For containerized environments, you can use the Datadog Agent, whether you're managing your instances or leveraging [Fargate][28] for a serverless environment.
```

#### EKS

You don't need any specific configuration for AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), as mentioned in the [Kubernetes Distributions documentation][33]. Use the [dedicated Kubernetes documentation][34] to deploy the agent in your EKS cluster.

#### EKS with Fargate

Since Fargate pods are managed by AWS, they exclude host-based system checks like CPU and memory. In order to collect data from your AWS Fargate pods, use the [Amazon EKS on AWS Fargate documentation][52] to run the Agent as a sidecar of your application pod with custom role-based access control (RBAC). **Note**: This requires Datadog Agent version 7.17 or higher.

#### EKS Anywhere

Use the [EKS Anywhere documentation][35] for on-premises Kubernetes clusters.

### Create additional Datadog resources
In addition to using the Datadog UI or [API][36], you can create many [Datadog resources][37] with the [CloudFormation Registry][38]. For visibility and troubleshooting, use [dashboards][39] to display key data, apply [Functions][40], and find [Metric Correlations][41]. 

> In order to get notified of any unwanted or unexpected behavior in your account, create [monitors][42]. Monitors consistently evaluate the data reported to your account, and send [Notifications][43] to ensure that the right information gets to the right team members. Review the [List of Notification Integrations][44] for all the ways to notify your team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get notified of any unwanted or unexpected behavior in your account, create [monitors][42]. Monitors consistently evaluate the data reported to your account, and send [Notifications][43] to ensure that the right information gets to the right team members. Review the [List of Notification Integrations][44] for all the ways to notify your team.
```

## Explore Related Products

### Serverless

You can unify the metrics, traces, and logs from your AWS Lambda functions running serverless applications in Datadog. Check out [Serverless] for instructions on instrumenting your application, installing [Serverless Libraries and Integrations][64], implementing [Distributed Tracing with Serverless Applications][66], or [Serverless Troubleshooting][67].

### APM
To dig even deeper and gather more data from your applications and AWS services, enable collecting distributed traces from either the [AWS X-Ray][45] integration or from a host with the Datadog Agent using [APM][46]. Then, review [Explore Datadog APM][47] for a better understanding of how to use this data to gain insights into your application performance. 

Additionally, you can use [Watchdog][48], an algorithmic feature for APM performance and infrastructure metrics, to automatically detect--and be alerted upon--potential application issues. 

### Security

#### Cloud SIEM

> Review [Getting Started with Cloud SIEM][53] to evaluate your logs against the out-of-the-box [Log Detection Rules][54]. These rules are customizable, and when threats are detected they generate Security Signals which can be accessed on the [Security Signals Explorer][55]. To ensure that the correct team is notified, use [Notification Rules][56] to configure notification preferences across multiple rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Review [Getting Started with Cloud SIEM][53] to evaluate your logs against the out-of-the-box [Log Detection Rules][54]. These rules are customizable, and when threats are detected, they generate Security Signals which can be accessed on the [Security Signals Explorer][55]. To ensure that the correct team is notified, use [Notification Rules][56] to configure notification preferences across multiple rules.
```
